PARAVIEW NOTES

SELECTING OBJECTS TO DISPLAY
Load vtk data files. Click on the window and then in the pipeline browser: click the "eye" icon to left of object to activate or de-activate its display in
the window. May need to open "Properties" window.

OVERLAYING TOPOGRAPHY
Load vtk data files again, click the "eye" icon and select "mass" variable.  Open color map editor, check "Enable opacity mapping for surface", set "Number of table values" to 2 with values 0 and 1. Click the "gear" icon in "Mapping data" and verify that the opacity for value 0 is 0 and opacity for value 1 is 1.
The "Color transfer function value" for 1 can be set to, e.g., (0.2, 0.2, 0.4) for land areas.

DISPLAY TIME
Filters -> Annotation -> Annotate Time Filter.  Need to click on "Apply" to be able to format font and location.  Uses printf format (e.g. %4.2f). Use shift and scale
to convert filenumber to correct units.

DISPLAY TEXT
Sources -> Text.  Need to click on "Apply" in "Properties" to be able to format font and location.  Font size 22 points is a good choice for all text
in axes and labels.

EDIT COLOR BAR
View -> Color Map Editor. Click on rainbow with black e (upper right) to edit color bar legend. Click on "Gear" to get all properties. Usually want to unclick "Add Range Labels".  Click on "heart" to change the colour palette: "Rainbow Desaturated" is a good choice in general.

NUMBER FORMAT
Paraview uses printf formats: e.g. %6.3f (standard) or %2.0e (scientific notation)
%#f always prints decimal point (usually don't want that!).

TRANSFORM DATA
Filter -> Alphabetical -> Cell Data to Point Data
To convert Cell data (e.g. hexagons) to point data (that can be used by filters like contour).

SAVE ANIMATION
File -> Save Animation. Click on "Save All Views" and then save as .jpg (don't click "transparent view").

Then convert .jpg to .avi usable in Beamer:

ffmpeg -r fps -i base%4d.jpg -vcodec mpeg4 -qscale 0 base.avi

e.g. 

ffmpeg -r 12 -i test.%4d.jpg -vcodec mpeg4 -qscale 0 DCMIP2008c5.avi

where: fps is the number of frames per second, "base" is the base name of the .jpg files and %4d is the frame numbering (e.g. test.0001.jpg, test.0002.jpg etc).
NB: need to include -start_number option if first file does not start at zero 0, for example:

ffmpeg -r 12 -start_number 10 -i test.%4d.jpg -vcodec mpeg4 -qscale 0 DCMIP2008c5.avi

SAVE STATE
To save the state of a session: File -> Save State...
To load a saved state: File -> Load State...

This save all aspects of a session including window layout, colour bars etc.
